---
layout: post
title: 
category: tech
tags: [Linux]
description: 如果你也像我一样经常工作于Windows和Linux，那么这篇文章值得一
---

# reptyr

ubuntu 可以直接利用apt进行安装。

reptyr  is a utility for taking an existing running program and attaching it to a new terminal. Started a long-running process over ssh, but have to leave and don't want to  interrupt it?  Just  start  a screen, use reptyr to grab it, and then kill the ssh session and head on home.

reptyr works by attaching to the target program using ptrace(2), redirecting  relevant  file
descriptors,  and  changing  the program's controlling terminal (See tty(4)) It is this last
detail that makes reptyr work much better than alternatives such as
retty(1).

</br>

# ALIAS

今天在编辑macos的zshrc的时候忘记了``的作用。
创建了一个每天9点01分的计划任务，用来创建一个文件，文件名为: date +%Y-%m-%d'-record.md,
然后在zshrc里面创建alias，
alias trd="cd /Users/ls3686/my_daily_record && vi \`date +%Y-%m-%d-record.md\`",

就可以每天用trd来编辑当天的文件了。

</br>


# Strace

strace -e execve ls -alhc
output:
execve("/bin/ls", ["ls", "-alhc"], 0x7ffc848b1f78 /* 25 vars */) = 0


In the simplest case strace runs the specified command until it exits.   It  intercepts  and
records the system calls which are called by a process and the signals which are received by
a process.  The name of each system call, its arguments and its return value are printed  on
standard error or to the file specified with the -o option.

strace  is  a  useful diagnostic, instructional, and debugging tool.  System administrators,
diagnosticians and trouble-shooters will find it invaluable for solving problems  with  pro‐
grams  for which the source is not readily available since they do not need to be recompiled
in order to trace them.  Students, hackers and the overly-curious will  find  that  a  great
deal  can  be learned about a system and its system calls by tracing even ordinary programs.
And programmers will find that since system calls and signals are events that happen at  the
user/kernel  interface,  a  close examination of this boundary is very useful for bug isola‐
tion, sanity checking and attempting to capture race conditions.

</br>

# windows 10 multi rdp session

[rdp wrap](https://github.com/stascorp/rdpwrap/releases)

默认的windows桌面操作系统，rdp的时候只能有一个session，后面尝试登录的session会将前一个强制注销掉，或者要求前一个的批准。
这个工具可以让桌面操作系统提供多达15的远程连接session。

